This thesis describes an analytical investigation into the dynamics of restrained cargo in the event of a crash and a method of selecting and configuring optimal energy absorbing cargo restraint systems.  A cargo dynamics simulation was developed to analyze the interaction between the cabin floor, cargo, and restraint system in a crash event. The crash event used in the simulation is defined by the requirements specified in the Aircraft Crash Design Guide (ACSDG). The simulation solves a system of state-variable equation for six degree-of-freedom rigid body dynamics. However, the analyses presented in this paper focus on purely longitudinal and purely lateral impacts – combined loadings are not included. The cargo is represented by a single, rigid container and the cabin floor is assumed to be a rigid body as well. Restraints are attached to the cabin floor and cargo via mounting points. The simulation does not taken friction into account as it is not a reliable factor in arresting cargo. Experimental validation of the model was conducted by comparing model results with data obtained from drop testing of stitch ripping devices. 
The energy absorbing restraints featured in the analyses have two components: load limiter and lanyard. The load limiter is the energy absorbing device of the restraint system.  The lanyard is used to connect 
The cargo dynamics simulation is coupled with Applied Research Laboratory Trade Space Visualizer (ATSV) – a multi-dimensional data exploration and visualization software – to exercise the simulation over the design space and visualize the results. Design studies are presented as exercises of a method to select and configure the optimal energy absorbing restraint configuration. 
